1.The highest quality of histological specimens can be obtained by embedding in:
*А. Canadian balm
B.  Canifole
C.  Cedar balm
D.  Gelatine
E. Polystyrol
2. As a result of  chemical influense the plasma membrane has  changed its shape. What  layaer of plasmolemma was affected? 
*А. Cortical
B. Glycocalyx
C. Bilipid
D. Hydrophilic
E. Hydrophobic
3.The model of what cell structure demonstrates a diagram showing the lipid molecules containing hydrophophobic and hydrophilic zones, integral proteins and  polysaccharides of glycocalyx?
*А. Model of biological membrane
B. Model of nuclear pore 
C. Model of chromosome’s structure 
D. Model of nuclear membrane’s structure
E. Model of mitochondria’s composition
4. The microbiotic toxins cause notable damage to glycocalyx. What function of the cell membrane will be greatly affected?
*А. Receptory
B. Transport
C. Respiratory
D. Contacts maintaining
E. Protective
5.Harmful ecological factors lead to a significant  decrease of endocytosis and exocytosis in  liver and blood cells. What  layer of plasmolemma was the most affected?
*А. Cortical
B. Lipoprotein
C. Outer membrane
D. Integral
E. Glycocalyx
6. Synthesis of protein in hepatocytes was greatly affected by the prolong influence of toxins. What organelles were the most damaged by intoxication?
*А. Rough endoplasmic reticulum
B. Mitochondria
C. Microtubules
D. Lysosomes
E. Golgi complex
7. The nucleoli of the nuclei were modified by ionizing radiation in the tissue over an experiment. Restoration of what organelles will be the most problematic?
*А. Ribosomes
B. Lysosomes
C. Endoplasmic reticulum
D. Microtubules
E. Golgi complex
8. There were  protein fragments  formed in cytoplasm of  a cell as a result of the  intense radiation in a laboratory bread animal .What  organelle will be responsible for their dissolvement ?
*А. Lysosome
В. Golgi complex
С. Ribosomes
D. Cell center
Е. Endoplasmic reticulum
9. The cell was modified by a substance that blocks nucleotide phosphorylation in mitochondria. What  vital process of the cell life was affected?
*А. ATP resynthesis
B. Mitochondrial proteins synthesis
C. Oxidative phosphorylation
D.Integration of functional protein molecules
E. Fragmentation of big mitochondria into  smaller ones
10.One of the cell structure was ruined during the scientific experiment that cause   the cell  ability to divide. What  structure was the most likely to be damaged?
*А. Centrosome
B. Glycocalyx
C. Golgi complex
D. Microfibrils
E. Mitochondria
11. Ribosome structure was damaged in a cell. What  processes will be affected first of all?
*А.  Synthesis of protein (translation)
B. Synthesis of protein (transcription)
C. Synthesis of carbohydrates
D. Synthesis of lipids 
E. Synthesis of minerals
12. What from  the listed cell components  are responsible for the formation of lysosome ?
*А. Golgi complex
B. Nucleus
C. Ribosomes
D. Mitochondria
E. Cell center
13. What kind of protein do the microtubules consist of?
*А. Tubulin
B. Desmin
C. Dynein
D. Calmoduli
E. Vimentin
14. Indicate protein that is considered as a main component of fine microfilaments in   the muscle cells:
*А. Actin
B. Tubulin
C. Dynein
D. Desmin
E. Ceratin
15. Indicate connection between protein and cytoskeleton typical for chemo mechanical interaction in the cilias?
*А. Dynein and microtubules
B. Miosin and microtubules
C. Actin and microfilaments
D. Tubulin and intermediate filaments
E. Kinesin, intermediate filaments
16. Synthesis of histone proteins was deliberately blocked in a cell. What cell  structure  will be damaged?
*А. Nuclear chromatine
B. Nucleolus
C. Golgi complex
D. Cell membrane
E. Nuclear membrane
17. Histological speciment demonstrates the human somatic cell at metaphase period of mitosis. How many chromosomes does the metaphase lamina contain(remember the fact that each chromosome contains two sister chromatids)?
*А. 46 chromosomes
B. 92 chromosomes
C. 23 chromosomes
D. 48 chromosomes
E. 24 chromosomes
18.  Investigation of somatic cells is essential for determination of gender in humans. What  structures  can provide  information about  the future gender  in humans ?
*А. Barr body
B. Peripherial chromatin
C. Euchromatin
D. Decondensed chromatin
E. Facultative chromatin
19.   Most of the liver cells demonstrate the  membrane disintegration in lysosomes  observed in a patient poisoned by СCl4. What will be the influence of the poison to the liver cells?
*А. Autolysis will develop, causing death of cells
B. No influence will be observed
C. Phagocytosis will occur
D. Pinocytosis will occur
E. Exocytosis will occur
20. It is well known that colchicine has the ability to block  biosynthesis of  tubulines. What  stage of the cell cycle will be  influenced ?
*А. Postsynthetic (premitotic) period of interphase
B. Prophase of mitosis
C. Synthetic period of interphase
D. Formation of metaphase plate 
E. Presynthetic (postmitotic) period of interphase
21. The patient is diagnosed with tumor in pyloric part of the stomach.  What proteins   are capable to inhibit  the mitotic division of the newly developed  tumor cells ?
*А. Keylones
B. Ribonuclease
C. Lisocyme
D. Haemoglobin
E. Mioglobin
22. Electron micrograph demonstrates  a cell without  a  nucleolus and nuclear membrane, chromosomes  are loose and  there are migrating centrioles to the  poles. What phase of  cell cycle is the cell at ?
*А. Prophase
B. Anaphase
C. Metaphase
D. Telophase
E. Interphase
23. During the mitosis  the scientist has notised  that the nuclear membrane and the nucleolus were absent, the centrioles were located at the poles. The chromosomes looked like a tangle of threads distributed loosely in a cytoplasm. Indicate the phase that responds to this description:
*A Prophase
В. Metaphase
С. Anaphase
D. Telophase
Е. Interphase
24. Secretory granules appear and disappear at apical pole over the course of secretory cycle in the cytoplasm of pancreatic cells.To what structural elements do these components belong to?
*А. Inclusions
B. Microfilaments
C. Lysosomes
D. Exocytotic vacuoles
E. Rough endoplasmic reticulum
25. There is a wound after the tooth extraction in the 40 years old man at the stage of active healing.What organelles are responsible for regeneration? 
*А. Ribosomes
B. Mitochondria
C. Peroxisomes
D. Centorosomes
E. Lysosomes
26. The patient was admitted to hospital after poisoning. It has been proved that mechanisms of detoxication were affected in his liver. What  organelles of the livercells have caused this condition?
*A.  Rough endoplasmic reticulum
B. Mitochondria
C. Smooth endoplasmic reticulum
D. Golgi complex
E. Ribosomes
27. Cytochemical investigation revealed the high content of hydrolitic enzymes in the cytoplasm.  Activity of what organelles does prove this fact?
*А. Lysosomes
B. Mitochondria
C. Polysomes
D. Endoplasmic reticulum
E. Cell center
28. The  tumor cells were  affected by colchicine that  arrest  formation of tubulin, essential for the mitotic spindle. What stages of the cell cycle will be damaged?
*A. Mitosis
B. Presynthetic period
C. Synthetic period
D. Postsynthetic period
E. Random period
29. What structures will be found in the cytoplasm of hepatocytes in  a person on  diet rich in carbohydrates ?
*A.Glycogen granules
B. Lipid granules droplets
C. One large oil drop
D. Increase  of free ribosomes
E. Inclusions of lipofuscin
30. The cell was processed with substances that disturb formation of cytolemma’s proteins. What functions of the cell surface will be damaged?
*A. Transport and reception
B. The extrusion process
C. Segregation and accumulation
D. Formation of  contacts
E. Barrier function
31. The 7 years old child is affected by the congenital disease with abnormal biopolymers accumulated in the cells. The function of what organelles is affected?
*А. Lysosomes
B. Ribosomes
C. Rough endoplasmic reticulum
D. Mitochondria
E. Peroxisomes
32.The investigation of  blood  demonstrates that the level of   albumins and fibrinogen is below  a norm. What organelles  of hepatocytes specify the most credibly this condition?
*А. Rough endoplasmic reticulum
B. Smooth endoplasmic reticulum
C. Mitochondria
D. Golgi complex
E. Lisosomes
33. Aminoacid leucine was marked by radioactive label and  added into nutritious of  an animal . It was revealed afterwards by radioautography that the high concentration of the labeled aminoacid was found around certain organelles. What organelles were the most likely to be marked?
*А. Ribosomes
B. Golgi complex
C. Smooth endoplasmic reticulum
D. Cell center
E. Lysosomes
34.  Electron micrograph of the nerve cells of spinal cord ganglia demonstrates certain organelles that are constituted of flattened in the middle and broad at the periphery cisternaers and are accomplished by the vesicles. What are these organelles?
*A. Golgi complex
B. Centrioles
C. Lysosomes
D. Peroxisomes
E. Mitochondria
35. The animal was on deliberate carbohydrate feeding. Significant amount of glycogen granules was found by histological investigation in hepatocytes. What group of cell structures does glycogen belong to?
*A.  Trophic inclusion
B.Secretory inclusion
C.Excretory inclusion
D.Pigmented inclusion
E. Special organelle
36. Analysis of an electron diffraction  of a cell revealed destruction of mitochondria. Indicate the process that might lead to such disorder:
*A. Oxidation of organic substances
B. Nuclear division
C. Crossingover
D. Cleavage
E.  -
37. Formation of ribosome  in a cell was disturbed over  the course of an experiment (by means of activated mutagenic factors). What effect it will provide to the following metabolic process:
*A. Protein biosynthesis
B. Carbohydrate biosynthesis
C. ATP synthesis
D. Photosynthesis
E. Biological oxidation
38. Electron microscopy  of a cell revealed roundish structure confined by a membrane and containing many different hydrolytic enzymes. It is known that these organelles provide intracellular digestion and protective functions.What are they:
*A Lysosomes
B Centrosome
C Endoplasmic reticulum
D Ribosomes
E Mitochondria
39. As a result of ionizing radiation or vitamin deficiency E, permeability of the membranes in lysosomes has increased. What consequences it can  lead to?
*A. Partial or complete destruction of the cell
B. Renewal of plasma membrane
C. Intensive protein synthesis
D. Intensive generation of energy
E. Formation of the division spindle 
40. The cells capable to divide undergo growth processes, formation of organelles, their accumulation due to active synthesis of proteins, RNA, lipids and  carbohydrates .What is period of the mitotic cycle when these processes might occur but no DNA is synthesized?
*A. Presynthetic
B. Synthetic
C. Premitotic
D. Anaphase        
E. Telophase
41. The ribosomes were destroyed over an experiment in polychromatophilic erythroblasts in human bone marrow. Syntesis of what protein will be affected?
*A. Globin
B. Fibrinogen
C.Collagen
D. Elastin
E. Laminine
42. Histological investigation of hepatocyte demonstrates small (0.05-1,5 mkm in diameter)membrane-limited spherical organelles that contain oxidative enzymes, particularly catalase and peroxidases.What are these organelles?
*A. Peroxisomes
B. Lysosomes
C. Melansomes
D. Liposomes
E. Mitichondria
43. There is an intence aerobic process in the muscle tissue that generates energy in a variety of macro-ergic ATP path-ways. What organelles participate at this process :
*A.Mitochondria
B.The sER
C.Lysosomes
D.The rER
E.Centrosome
1. Over the experiment with amphibian blastule that constituted of 16 blastomeres, one blastomere was eliminated. The separated cell was continuing its normal development and constituted a new embryo. What important feature of blastomere
was demonstated over  the experiment?
*А. Totipotence
В. Ability to embryonic induction
С. Ability to differentiation 
D. Formation of embryo poles
Е. Formation of germ layers
2.The  primary mesodermal node was not fully completed in an embryo. Development of what  axial organ will be delayed?
*А. Notochord
B. Neural groove
C. Neural crest
D. Neural tube
E. Mantia layer of neural tube
3. The ectoderm was destroyed in an amphibian embryo during the experimental investigation. What  morphological structures will fail to develop in this embryo?
*A Epidermis
B Somites
C Nephrotome
D Splanchnotome
E Bone tissue
4. The mesenchyme was destroyed in the yolk sac of a mammal at early stage of embryogenesis over the experiment. What consequences  it will lead to?
*A. Violated formation of blood vessels
B. Disrupted trophic of embryo
C. Disrupted  metabolism
D. Disrupted formation of allantois 
E. Disrupted formation of amnion.
5. The myotom was destroyed in a rabbit’s embryo over the experiment. What structures will fail to develop as a result of this procedure?
*А. Skeletal muscles
B. Axial skeleton
C. Connective tissue of skin
D. Smooth muscle tissue
E. Serous membranes
6. The histological specimen demonstrates  a chicken embryo at the stage of mesoderm differentiation into somites, nephrotome and splanchnotome.What structure will the striated skeletal muscle tissue  derive from ?
*А. Myotome
B. Dermatome
C. Nephrotome
D. Splanchnotome
E. Sklerotome
7. The researches of Speman prove that formation of certain structures in embryo occurs due to the impact of some inductors. What structures will develope influenced by inductors of the dorsal lip of blastopore?
*А. Neural tube
B .Notochord
C. Mesoderm
D. Primary gut
E. Somites
8. There is a disordered zone of architectonic located around ectoderm and notochord observed in a bioptate of embryonic material. Development of what structures might be affected if the pregnancy will continue?
*А. Skeletal tissues
В. Urogenital system
С. Skeletal muscle tissue
D. Cardiac striated muscle tissue
Е. Fibrous connective tissue of the skin.
9. Disordered differentiation of entoderm was detected in the embryonic material.  Development of what organs can be affected in this case?
*А. Stomach
B. Heart
C. Kidneys
D. Aorta
E. Salivary glands
10. The statistics demonstrates that 10 – 14 % of newborn babies are diagnosed with abnormalyties of urinary system .What are the sources of urinary system development?
*А. Non-segmented caudal mesoderm
B. Dorsal mesoderm
C. Visceral mesoderm
D. Splanchnic mesoderm
E. Fetal mesenchyme
11. The specimen shows damaged cornea of the fetus’ eyeball. What  germ layer was affected over the embryonic period?
*А. Ectoderm
B. Entoderm
C. Mesoderm
D. Dermatome
E. Nephrotome
12. The histological specimen contains extraembryonic bubble like organ connected with the intestine tube. Its inner part is lined with epithelium and the outer part is formed by the connective tissue. At early stages of embyogenesis this organ performs hemopoietic function.What is this organ?
*A. Yolk sac
B. Allantois
C.Amnion
D.Umbilical cord
E. Placenta
13. The specimen shows a transverse section of an organ which base is composed mainly of mucous connective tissue, two arteries and a vein. What organ is represented?
*А. Umbilical cord
B. Allantois
C. Yolk sac
D. Amnion
E. Placenta
14. At early stages of embryonic development a finger shaped structure of the ventral wall of primary intestine projects into an amniotic pedicle. What is the name of the structure described above?
*A Allantois
B Yolk sac
C Amnion
D Placenta
E Umbilical cord
15. The ecto-and entoderm are completed at early gastrulation period .What is the mechanism that leads to appearance of these layers?
*A. Delamination
B. Invagination
C.Epiboly
D. Immigration
E.Implantation
16. Microscopic investigation of the dead fetus’ heart shows the changes in cardiomyocytes. What source failed to develop and has caused such disorder ?
*А. Myoepicardial plate
B. Myotome
C. Entoderm
D. Ectoderm
E. Mesenchyme
17. During embryonic development human fetus contains a cavity, surrounded by small light blastomeres at the periphery and a dark large blastomeres at one of the poles. What is the embryo at this stage of formation?
*A Blastocyst
B Morula
C Zygote
D Gastrule
E Germ disc
18. One of the heart tunics is similar to the wall of a blood vessel based on histogenesis and tissue composition. What is the source of their development?
*А. Mesenchyme
B. Splanchnotome
C. Entoderm
D. Ectoderm
E. Somites
19.The visceral layers of mesoderm adjusted to the mesenchymal tubes were destroyed  in a fetus over the  experiment. Development of what structures will be affected?
*А. Myocardium and epicardium
B. Myocardium and endocardium
C. Epicardium and endocardium
D. Endothelium and endocardium
E. Mesothelium and epicardium.
20. The microscopic specimen of fetal eyeball shows the damage of vascularcoat. What embryonic  structure  the most likely was damaged?
*А. Mesenchyme
B. Ectoderm
C. Entoderm
D. Outer layer of the optic cup
E .Inner layer of the optic cup
21. The new born baby was diagnosed with abnormal formation of big salivary glands. What  embryonic structures were affected and  have caused  this anomality?
*A. Ectoderm
B .Mesenchyme
C .Splanchnotome
D .Somites
E .Entoderm
22. Ectodermal cells are differentiated into neuroblasts and spongioblasts in a neural tube of human fetus .As the result of their movement certain layers are being formed. What  layer contains mostly the neuron bodies ?
*A.  Mantia layer
B. Ependymal layer
C. Marginal vail
D. White matter
E. Spinal cord envelope
23. The damage of the first four somite pedicles on the right side has occurred during embryogenesis. What organs will be significally affected?
*А. Pronephros
B. Liver
C. Pancreas
D. Right adrenal
E. Spleen
24. The sclerotome was destroyed in a chicken embryo over the experiment. What structure will be affected as the result of this procedure?
*А. Axial skeleton
B. Connective tissue of skin
C. Inner organs stroma
D. Gonad stroma
E. Notochord
25. One of the embryonic organs failed to differentiate due to oncogenic release.  As the result the cancerous tumor has derived from the muscular layer of small intestine. Development of what embryonic structure was influenced principally?
*А. Mesenchyme
B Splanchnotome
C. Neural tube
D. Ectoderm of skin
E. Myotome
26. The specimen shows a chicken embryo at the stage of mesoderm differentiation into somites, nephrotome and splanchnotome. What structure does the axial  skeleton derived from?
*А. Sklerotome
B. Dermatome
C. Nephrotome
D. Splanchnotome
E. Myotome
27. The physiological connection is established at some stages of ontogenesis between blood circulation in mother and fetus.What structure performs this function?
*A.  Placenta
B .Yolk sac
C. Amnion
D. Serous membrane
E.Allantois
28. Implantation  undergoes two stages: adhesion and invasion.What  is morphological manifestation of adhesion of blastocyst:
*A Attachment of blastocyte to the endometrium
B. Destruction of  endometrial epithelium
C.Destruction of  connective tissue in endometrium
D.Destruction of  endometrial vessels
E .Formation of lacunae
29. The segmentation of dorsal mesodermal formation of somite was disturbed in an embryo .What part of skin will have developmental abnormalities?
*A .Derma
B .Hair
C .Sebaceous glands
D. Epidermis
E. Sudoriferous glands
30. Over the course of a conditional experiment the development of mesenchymal  cells was completely inhibited. Development of what  muscular tissue will be disturbed:
*A. Smooth muscular tissue
B. Neural muscular tissue
C. Epidermal muscular tissue
D. Cardiac muscular tissue
E. Skeletal muscular tissue
31.Zona pellucida of embryo has been dissolved at first  critical period in the uterine tube.What problem of pregnancy it can lead to?
*A. Implantation of embryo in uterine tube
B. Death of the embryo
C. Invagination of the blastocyst wall
D. Blastocyst’s returning to the ampulla of the uterine tube
E. Development of two blastocysts. 
32. Early human embryo consists of two blastomeres. What is the most probable place of its implantation if the pregnancy will progress normal?
A.  Uterine tube, near the ampulla
B. Uterine tube, near its uterine end
C. Uterus
D. Abdominal cavity
E. Ovary
33. Human embryogenesis consists of the following periods: initiate, presomite, somite, implantation, placentation. When does the placentation occur?
*A. Third – eighth week
B. 7 – 8 day
C. 17 – 20 day
D. 21 – 35 day
E. 1 – 7 day
34. During embryonic development human fetus contains a cavity, surrounded by small light blastomeres at the periphery and a dark large blastomeres at one of the poles.What is the embryo at this stage of formation? 
*A.  Blastocyst 
B. Morule
C. Zygote
D. Gastrule
E. Embryonic disk
35. The diagram shows a human embryo at its early stages of formation before implantation (multicellular structure containing a cavity inside). What is this stage ?
*A. Blastocyst
B. Zygote
C. Morule
D. Gastrule
E. Neurule
36.The  ultrasound investigation of a pregnant alcohol addicted women  demonstrates the brain anomaly in the fetus.What critical embryonic  period corresponds  to formation of this  brain pathology?
*A. 15 – 20 week of embryonic development
B. 20 – 24 week of embryonic development
C. 7 – 8 day of embryonic development
D. 3 – week of embryonic development
E. Neonatal period
37. The woman has suffered from acute infection disease during 3-4 weeks of the pregnancy. What stage of embryogenesis could be the most possibly affected?
*A. Formation of the gut
B. Implantation
C. Placentetion
D. Development of brain
E. Formation of reproductive system
38. The mesenchyme of the yolk sac was destroyed at early stage of embryogenesis in the experiment. What will be the consequences of such procedure ?
*A. Blood vessels will fail to form
B. Embryo trophic will be affected
C. Excretion of metabolic wasted will be affected
D. Allantois formation will be affected
E. Amnion formation will be affected
39. Synthesis of lytic enzymes is genetically inhibited in trophoblasts of the blastocyst covered by zona pellucida.  What embryonic process can be delayed or not completed at all?
*A. Implantation
B. Delamination
C. Imigration
D. Gastrulation
E. Epiboly
40. Examination of histological specimen  demonstates a  yolk sac. What is the main function of this organ?
*A. Hemopoietic
B. Trophic
C. Producing amniotic fluid
D. Excretory
E. Protection
41. The patient is diagnosed with abnormally developed liver. What embryonicsource was damaged?
*A. Entoderm of the anterior wall of the thoracic gut
B. Entoderm of the posterior wall of the thoracic gut
C. Entoderm of the foregut
D. Mesonephral duct
E. Entoderm of the hindgut
42. Microscopic examination revealed the elements of chorion. What is the main function of this structure?
*A. Metabolic exchange between mother and fetus
B. Hemopoietic function
C. Amniotic fluid production
D. Production of the gonoblasts
E. Formation and growth of vessels
43. The gonoblasts that are precursors of spermatocytes and oocytes, were detected in an 2-3weeks embryo. What structure do these cells derive from?
*A. Extraembryonic endoderm
B. Mesenchyme
C. Embryonic ectoderm
D. Dermatomes
E. Embryonic endoderm 
44. Early human gastrulation includes delamination of embryoblast. Indicate the structure that contains the nerve system germ:
*A. Epiblast
B. Trophoblast
C. Hypoblast
D. Marginal zone of hypoblast
E. Marginal zone of epiblast
45. It is well known  that there is a migration of neural crest cells  at long  distances and many type of cells in human organism arised from them. What  cells do never derive from the neural crest?
*A. Myocytes
B. Neurocytes of vegetative ganglia
C. Adrenal medulla
D. Melanocytes
E. Sensory nuclei of cranial nerve
46. The result of cleavage is a formation of the blastule. What is the type of blastule   in  human and mammals?
*A. Blastocyst
B. Celoblastule
C. Discoblastule
D. Amphiblastule
E. Morule
47. The extraembryonic organ consists of a simple squamous epithelium becoming  columnar and cuboidal from the third  month and  participating in the fluid production at early stages of embryogenesis.What is this organ ?
*A. Amnion
B. Yolk sac
C. Allantois
D. Umbilical cord
E. Placenta
48. Ultrasound investigation demonstrates  the excess of fluid  around the fetus. The function of what extraembryonic organ was affected?
*A. Amnion
B. Yolk sac
C. Chorion
D. Allantois
E. Placenta
49.  The light and dark blastomeres were separated during the cleavage two days  after fertilization. What might be the  consequence of such separation?
*A. Identical twins will be born
B. Siamese twins will be born
C. Embryogenesis will stop
D. A boy will be born
E. A girl will be born
50. The Siamese twins that shared a common allantois and yolk sac during embryogenesis were born.  At what term of embryogenesis did the embryo undergo a split into two parts?
*A. After the 9th  day
B. 1-3 day
C. 4 – 5 day
D. 21 – 28 day
E. 30 – 35 day
51. The patient that suffers form Kartegener syndrom seeks medical help. The syndrome is based on the absence of movements in flagellas and cilias. What are the molecular mechanisms of this pathology?
*A.  Lack of dynein
B. Excess of dynein
C. Absence of tubulin
D. Spectrin deficiency
E. Lack of hyaluronidase
52. The antigen of histocompatibility is inherited from both parents. Theexpression of this  antigens begins  at very early embryonic period, although the mother’s immune system does not reject the embryo.What provisor organ is the first to prevent  rejection of the embryo by the mother’s organism?
*A. Chorion
B.Cytotrophoblast
C. Allantois
D. Yolk sac
E. Placenta
53. The bilaminar embryonic disc composed of ecto- and endoderm was detected in a specimen  of an aborted fetus. What stage of embryonic development is illustrated?
*A. Gastrulation
B. Progenesis
C. Neurulation
D. Histogenesis
E. Organogenesis
54. Normal implantation of human fetus can occur only in case of appropriate change of  endometrium in uterus.What cells of  endometrium do increase in number in this case?
*A. Decidual cells
B. Macrophages
C. Endotheliocytes
D. Fibroblasts
E. Neurons
55. During forensic examination an embryo at early stage of gastrulationwas found in the uterus of a dead woman.What is the place of its localization in case of its normal  development?
*A.  The wall of uterus
B. The ampulla of uterine tube
C. The uterine part of uterine tube
D. Ovary
E. Abdominal cavity
56. Gastrulation is the process that establishes the three definitive germ embryonic layers. What process is responsible for formation of endo-and ectoderm in human?
*A. Delamination
B. Invagination
C. Epiboly
D. Imigration
E. Invagination, epiboly
57. Spermatozoa pass into femal reproductive organs against the current of the fluidsecreting by the epithelium which lines the cervix,uterus and uterine tube. What is this ability called?
*A. Rheotaxis
B. Termotaxis
C. Chaemotaxis
D. Capacitation
E. Acrosome reaction
58. Embryologist Svetlov described 8 critical periods of embryonic development. When does the first of these periods begin?
*A. 7 – 8 day of embryonic development
B. 1 – 4 day of embryonic development
C. 2 – 3 week of embryonic development
D. 3 – 6 week of embryonic development
E. 10 – 12 week of embryonic development
59. Implantation of an embryo to  the endometrium includes two stages: adhesion and invasion. The stage of adhesion is accompanied by:
*A. Attachment of blastocyst to the surface of endometrium
B. Destruction of the connective tissue of endometrium
C. Destruction of epitheliocytes of the uterine mucosa
D. Activation of secretion by uterine glands
E. Depression of uterine gland secretion
60. On the 20th  day of human embryogenesis, the embryo becomes  separated from the provisor organs. What structure are responsible for this process?
*A. Trunk fold
B. Amniotic fold
C. Coelom
D. Yolk stalk
E. Somites
61. Placenta is considered as a temporary endocrine gland by producing certain enzymes. What  enzyme produced  3-4 day after implantation is used in medical practice to identify pregnancy at early stages?
*A. Chorionic gonadotropin
B. Somatostatin
C. Progesteron
D. Vasopresin
E. Oxytocin
62. Histological specimen shows an extraembryonic bubble like organ connected with the gut. The wall of the organ is lined with epithelium, the outer surface  is formed  by  connective tissue. At early stages of embryogenesis this organ performs haemopoietic function. Identify the organ.
A. Yolk sac
B. Allantois
C. Amnion
D. Umbilical cord
E. Placenta
63. In the process of embryogenesis the trophoblast becomes differentiated into a precursor of the endocrine organ. What is the correct answer?
*A. Chorion with villi (fetal part of placenta)
B. Amnion
C. Yolk sac
D. Allantois
E. Umbilical cord
64. There was an embryo in the uterus not attached to the endometrium.What is stage of embryogenesis ?
*A. Blastocyst
B. Zygote
C. Morule
D. Gastrule
E. Neurule
65. By examination of amniotic fluid obtained by amniocentesis the cells containing nuclei with sex chromatin (Barr bodies) were found.What does this fact indicate?
*A. Embryo will develop into a female
B. Embryo will develop into a male
C. There are genetical disorders in embryo
D. There is trisomy
E. There is polyploidy
66. A newborn baby was diagnosed with  blue asphixy. What blood vessel that delivers the oxygen from the mother  to the fetus was damaged (constricted) during parturition?
*A. Umbilical vein
B. Umbilical artery
C. Chorionic vein
D. Chorionic artery
E. Uterine artery
67.  The specimen of 10 days human embryo demonstrates two vesicles that contactwith each other (amniotic and yolk vesicles). What is the structure  located at their contact?
*A. Embryonic disc
B. The bottom of amnionic vesicle
C. The bottom of the yolk vesicle
D. Amniotic stalk
E. Extraembryonic mesoderm
